Greetings to all fellow practitioners and friends!
Dear fellow practitioners and
friends, at the beginning of the year, we often go to temples and
shrines, and when we go to temples and shrines,
we are usually given a package of blessings called "
New Year's Blessings," which usually includes salt and
rice. Today, while meditating, I received
a question from a friend
regarding the practice of
buying
salt at the beginning of the year and lime at the end of the year.
The question is about the
Buddhist perspective on this matter.
Dear fellow practitioners, we live
in the world, and from a young age, we have
n't fully understood the
teachings of the Buddha. We often
follow
worldly beliefs and viewpoints. Now that we are
beginning to learn about Buddhism, we are
bringing our lives back to the
life of a Buddhist. In
this transition, there are many customs, rituals, and
viewpoints that
we have practiced before.
Now that we are transitioning to
Buddhism, if we abandon them, will we
feel a sense of unease or loss?  We are hesitant,
so we cannot let go of it.
We
must attain enlightenment to let go,
we must understand to let go. And the
habit of a Buddhist disciple is also very
good, dear fellow practitioners. What is it?
Now, let's understand that we no longer follow just any
method
without basis, we no longer
follow a viewpoint, we
no longer follow tradition, but
we must think. We
listen and think according to the
principle of cause and effect, according to Right View as taught by the Buddha. Please
read the question and
share with fellow practitioners and
friends how to correctly understand the custom of buying salt at the beginning of the year and
lime at the end of the year. "
Hello, teacher. Every Tet holiday, my mother
buys a small bag of salt to hang in the house
or to worship along with rice. Please
explain to me how to
correctly understand the concept of buying salt at the beginning of the year and lime at the end of the year.
If I want to have good luck and wealth all year round,
what should I do?" That is,
the question has two parts:
firstly, wanting to understand the custom of buying salt at the beginning of the year.  The saying goes, "Buy
salt at the end of the year, buy lime at the end of the year," and secondly, "If you
want good luck and wealth all year,
what should you do during
Tet?" Dear fellow practitioners, let
's return to the folk belief that salt
has a salty taste,
so people want
a
year of strong
family bonds and happiness. That's a
very
good
idea. However, there's another idea that's not in line with Buddhism: bringing salt home, or going to the temple or somewhere else at the beginning of the year, is believed to ward off evil spirits and dark energies. This is incorrect according to
Buddhist teachings. Dear fellow practitioners, this is
wrong. Let's
consider where this belief originates. It
stems from fear—fear of
bad luck,
fear of ghosts and demons. In the past, people
often talked about evil spirits and demonic possession,
so they thought anything they perceived as
good
would ward off evil spirits. That's why they
believe...  It's about warding off evil spirits, not just salt. If you
don't ward off evil spirits, then if your heart is filled with
evil, then your external environment will also be filled with evil. If your heart is unwholesome, then you will
encounter many obstacles in the external environment,
isn't that right? That's the
Buddhist perspective. Our folk beliefs
also have another perspective: buying salt
to remind the family to live frugally. At
the beginning of the year, we can do business all year round. We
save money
to build a house at the end of the year. Buying
lime at the end of the year is a
good idea, isn't it? It's very
good. And what about the other belief about buying lime? People say that if you buy
lime at the beginning of the year, because
lime is white, they fear that if you buy it at the beginning of the year, everything
will be white all year round,
and your business wo
n't prosper.
That's why it's considered taboo.  The idea of ​​not buying lime
is wrong
because lime isn't the only white flour
; rice flour is also white. For example, when
you eat wheat flour, isn't it white? So, if a
bakery doesn't buy and
stockpile wheat flour at the beginning of the year, how can they
make bread? There are
many white things, not just a few;
lots of white clothes,
right? But at the beginning of the year, people
want to wear white clothes to look
nice, don't they? So,
the idea of ​​white is incorrect.
For example, people say that funeral clothes
are white, so you shouldn't wear white at the beginning of the year for
fear of mourning?
That's a wrong idea. It's
not right. What about the idea of
not buying lime at the beginning of the year? For example, if you're
building a house at the end of the year, don't buy lime. If you
build at the end of the year, the lime won't be of good quality. That's what's
acceptable. Things
have to be practical; if you
combine it with spirituality, it has to be
truly spiritual.  But if we just
imagine and associate one thing with another, that's not right.
What about the perspective on why when
we go to the temple, we are often given
salt and rice by the temple, and
then we take them home to worship?
What is the meaning behind that? For example, at the Golden Pagoda,
Buddhist followers from near and far who come to the
temple at the beginning of the year are given a bag of
salt and a bag of rice.
What does that mean? It means that rice is
food to nourish us; having rice to eat
sustains human life. Salt
is a substance that the body needs.
If we only had salt and rice, could we
live? Yes,
we can live. We can live if we eat. We
add salt to vegetables and cook them, right?
We eat rice with vegetables and salt,
right? That's enough to live. So the meaning behind the temple giving us salt and rice is that they wish all Buddhist followers near and far a new year filled with abundance, fulfilling their lives and desires.  What you're thinking about is the
temple's intention to show you, clearly
through the symbolism of salt and rice.
It's not about warding off evil spirits,
understand? There's nothing to ward off
evil spirits because the Buddha is compassionate and
wishes for all sentient beings to
be well and happy. That's why when you
go to the temple, they give you a package of blessings:
salt and rice. So, from
receiving this salt and rice blessing, you
take it home and offer it on
your family altar. You go to the temple, you receive
this salt and rice from the temple, and you offer it to the
Buddhas, to the benevolent deities, to the guardian spirits, to your
ancestors. Is that okay?
Because you receive it,
you offer it, that
's a kind heart. You
offer it, and from that, it generates
blessings. It's not superstition,
it generates blessings for
you. After it generates blessings, you
take it down and cook and eat it, is that okay?
Cooking and eating it is called the temple's blessing, dear fellow
practitioners.  So, the saying "
buy salt at the beginning of the year, buy lime at the end of the year" reflects a
positive perspective. It's a symbolic reminder that
we should live
frugally throughout the year.
We should save for what we need, and
also save
for our
parents, for economic development, for
illness, and
for building houses.
We should save for charity and
for
doing good deeds. So,
buying salt with such a sincere intention, as a
reminder, is a
good thing. And the idea of
buying lime at the end of the year, if we're
preparing
everything so that at the end of the year we
have a sum to
save for building a house, that's also a
good thing. Nowadays, people don't
buy lime to build houses anymore.  Is it about
hiring workers at the end of the year or buying
materials at the end of the year? If you have money to build a house at the end of the year, that
's fine. So, the idea of
buying salt at the beginning of the year and lime at the end of the year
reflects the
Buddhist perspective. When
you come to the temple and
see the temple giving you salt and rice, you take it, bring it home, offer it to your ancestors,
and then use it. Then you go
to the temple to
pray for a good year, and
you are grateful to the temple. You
also hope that Buddhism will
develop, that many people will know about and practice
Buddhism, understand karma, abandon evil,
and do good. Because we practice, we
understand all worldly concepts
correctly; we are not
superstitious, right? That's the benefit.
Therefore, we want the temple to
develop and many people to practice Buddhism. I
also wish
you and your families a
happy
new year, living in accordance with the meaning of buying salt,
which means...  Entering into life, Pham
Hanh had few desires, knowing
enough, working diligently to develop the
family's economy, becoming a Buddhist family where
everything is
peaceful and well, diligently practicing Buddhist teachings to
enlighten wisdom, and the children also
progress in their studies. Good fortune. Farewell to all esteemed fellow
practitioners and friends.
See you again in the
next Q&A session.
[Music]
according to the lyrics.